Add connectsense integration docs for first PR (#42445)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/connectsense.markdown

---
title: ConnectSense
description: Integrates the ConnectSense Rebooter Pro network recovery power cycler.

> ha_release: 2025.11.3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2026.1
```

ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_codeowners:
  - '@JonathanWitthoeft'
ha_domain: connectsense
ha_integration_type: device
---

> The **ConnectSense** {% term integration %} integrates the [Rebooter Pro](https://www.gridconnect.com/products/rebooter-pro) from [Grid Connect Inc](https://www.gridconnect.com). It discovers devices via Zeroconf or by manually entering hostname/IP and exposes a reboot button for the outlet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **ConnectSense** {% term integration %} integrates the [Rebooter Pro](https://www.gridconnect.com/products/rebooter-pro) from [Grid Connect Inc](https://www.gridconnect.com). Devices can be discovered automatically or you can manually enter hostname/IP. The integration exposes a reboot button for the outlet.
```

## Supported devices

- ConnectSense Rebooter Pro (CS-REBOOTER-PRO)

## Prerequisites

The Rebooter Pro should be added to your network using one of the following methods.

> ### Local Configuration via Web Browser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Local configuration via web browser

```
We use [sentence-style capitalization](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/capitalization), also in headings.

1. Power the Rebooter Pro.
2. Connect to its Wi-Fi (CS-RBTR-*).
3. Open a browser and visit [http://192.168.250.1/](http://192.168.250.1/).
4. Follow remaining instructions in the browser.

> ### ConnectSense App (cloud access and account required)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### ConnectSense App (cloud access and account required)

```

1. Open the app store and install the **ConnectSense** app.
2. Create an account.

> 3. Click the **+** sign to Add a Device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the **+** sign to **Add a Device**.
```
We prefer [select over click](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/c/click)

4. Select **Rebooter Pro**.
5. Follow remaining instructions in the app.

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

{% configuration_basic %}
Host or IP:
  description: Hostname (e.g., `rebooter-pro.local`) or IP address of the Rebooter Pro.
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Supported functionality

### Controls

> - **Reboot Now Button**: Immediately power-cycles the outlet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Reboot now** button: Immediately power-cycles the outlet.
```

## Known limitations

- No device actions or entity events are exposed.

> - Ensure Home Assistant can generate a reachable webhook URL (set an internal/external URL if needed) so the device can send notifications back to HA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure Home Assistant can generate a reachable webhook URL (set an internal/external URL if needed) so the device can send notifications back to Home Assistant.
```

## Troubleshooting

### Cannot connect during setup

- Verify the device is reachable at the provided host/IP over HTTPS.

> - If zeroconf is not offered, add manually; mDNS may be blocked on the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the device is not discovered automatically, add it manually. mDNS may be blocked on the network.
```

- Check SSL settings if using an IP/hostname that differs from the certificate.

> ## Removing the integration

Reviewer: there's a standard section for this that you can use if applicable

https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/blob/current/source/_integrations/_integration_docs_template.markdown?plain=1#L200

Author: Will add standard section
